setup-DigitalOcean/README.md, before:

## k8s v1.0.4 on CoreOS/flannel at Digital Ocean

Simple bootstrap config for quick start

get latest stable release version number:

```bash
k8s_latest=`curl https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/stable.txt -s`

# all kubernetes binaries can be curled via:
http://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/$k8s_latest/bin/linux/amd64/<binary_name>
```

Revise the yaml files to ensure `kubernetes-release` is as expected (this repo version uses 1.0.4).

### Digital Ocean API Key

You will need your Digital Ocean API key handy. Head over to https://cloud.digitalocean.com/settings/applications if you do not yet have one. Generate a new *Personal Access Token* for both *read* and *write*. Export the token as an environment variable so we can use it later on:

```console
$ export DO_TOKEN=<token_from_website>
```

### Using doctl

[`doctl`](https://github.com/digitalocean/doctl/) is a tool written in Go to simplify Digital Ocean control from the command line. Below are a few scripts using doctl to set up & tear down a Kubernetes cluster on Digital Ocean.

The Start script will detect if doctl is available and download doctl 0.0.16 if not found.

All scripts also depend on [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/) but do not detect if it is missing.

The Scripts do not store any configuration of the cluster created and are pretty dumb.

Be very careful with the script to destroy droplets, do not run unless you understand how it works!

#### Script: start.sh

##### Usage:

```console
$ ./scripts/create.sh <domain> <region> <nodes>
```

for example, the following command will create *3 nodes* (1 master + 2 workers) for domain.com in Singapore region

```console
$ ./scripts/create.sh domain.com sgp1 2
```

#### Script: addnodes.sh

##### Usage:

```console
$ ./scripts/addnodes.sh <domain> <region> <existing_count> <nodes_to_add>
```

for example, the following command will add 2 nodes (node3 & node4) for domain.com in Singapore regaion

```console
$ ./scripts/addnodes.sh domain.com sgp1 3 2
```

#### Script: destroy.sh

##### Usage:

*Danger*

```console
$ ./scripts/destroy.sh <domain> <region> <nodes>
```

for example, the following command will try to destroy master.sgp1.domain.com, node0.sgp1.domain.com & node1.sgp1.domain.com

```console
$ ./scripts/destroy.sh domain.com sgp1 2
```

### Test Cluster

Once the kubernetes cluster has been created, you can test the cluster with following commands

* Connect to master, download kubectl

  ```
  curl -sLo kubectl http://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/v1.0.4/bin/linux/amd64/kubectl
  chmod +x kubectl
  sudo mv kubectl /opt/bin/kubectl
  ```

* `fleetctl list-machines` 
* `kubectl get cs`
* `kubectl get nodes`

### Run & Expose Kube-ui for demo

```bash
git clone https://github.com/so0k/yapc-asia-2015.git
kubectl create -f yapc-asia-2015/demo/rc/kube-ui-rc.yaml --namespace=kube-system
kubectl create -f yapc-asia-2015/demo/svc/kube-ui-svc.yaml --namespace=kube-system
```

Once UI pods have started, UI will be available here: http://master.domain.com:8080/ui/

### Digital Ocean caveats:

Notice that the default interface `eth0` receives 2 IP addresses:

```console
$ ip -4 addr show
1: lo: <LOOPBACK,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 65536 qdisc noqueue state UNKNOWN group default
    inet 127.0.0.1/8 scope host lo
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
2: eth0: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1500 qdisc fq_codel state UP group default qlen 1000
    inet 169.254.171.147/16 brd 169.254.255.255 scope link eth0
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
    inet 188.166.243.236/20 brd 188.166.255.255 scope global eth0
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
3: eth1: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1500 qdisc fq_codel state UP group default qlen 1000
    inet 10.130.50.203/16 brd 10.130.255.255 scope global eth1
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
4: flannel.1@NONE: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1450 qdisc noqueue state UNKNOWN group default
    inet 10.244.40.0/16 scope global flannel.1
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
5: docker0@NONE: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1450 qdisc noqueue state UP group default
    inet 10.244.40.1/24 scope global docker0
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
```

This trips up `kelseyhightower\network-environment-setup` which picks up the first ip address (internal) for `${DEFAULT_IPV4}` as the Host Name reported by the kubelet, causing several issues with the k8s cluster.

[From DO CoreOS troubleshooting guide](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-troubleshoot-common-issues-with-your-coreos-servers#checking-for-access-to-the-metadata-service): The actual cloud-config file that is given when the CoreOS server is created with DigitalOcean is stored using a metadata service. The Meta Data service lives in CIDR `196.254.0.0/16` which is routed through `eth0`.

From within your host machine, type:

```console
$ curl -L 169.254.169.254/metadata/v1
id
hostname
user-data
vendor-data
public-keys
region
interfaces/
dns/

$ curl -L 169.254.169.254/metadata/v1/user-data
#cloud-config
users:
...
```

We can fix in 3 ways:

1. Use the [`cgeoffroy/setup-network-environment`](https://github.com/cgeoffroy/setup-network-environment/commit/b09605e88c9bcc6d10bc442f6dd829ae317d488a) fork which comes with a `-f option to filter CIDR` use this option to filter out `196.254.0.0/16`
1. Use `$public_ipv4` variable which is made available to the cloud-config
1. Use `$private_ipv4` variable which is made avaialble to the cloud-config

I chose option 1 to keep functionality the same as in original yaml files but make them work on Digital Ocean, this should be the same as `$public_ipv4` - which exposes cAdvisor statistics to the public internet. I believe using `$private_ipv4` is a better option.

### Create cluster using Digital Ocean web Interface

Booo!

#### Create Master Droplet

Create a new droplet via DO web interface, as follows:
  1. Droplet Hostname: `master.domain.com`
  1. Select Size: Any
  1. Select Region: Any with private networking support
  1. Available Settings: "Private Networking", "Enable User Data"
  1. Put cloud-config to user data textarea
  1. Select Image: CoreOS (stable)
  1. Choose your SSH key
  1. Press "Create a Droplet" button

For Demo: Create DNS record pointing `master.domain.com` to public IP of droplet

#### Create Node Droplets

Create a new droplets via DO web interface, as follows (replace %i% by running number):
  1. Droplet Hostname: `node%i%.domain.com`
  1. Select Size: Any
  1. Select Region: *same region as master*
  1. Available Settings: "Private Networking", "Enable User Data"
  1. Put cloud-config to user data textarea
  1. *Replace `<master-private-ip>` by your master private ip address*
  1. Select Image: CoreOS (stable)
  1. Choose your SSH key
  1. Press "Create a Droplet" button

For Demo: create a DNS record pointing to `node%i%.domain.com` to public IP of droplet

### Using Curl & Digital Ocean (API)

Hardcore?

### Get all SSH Keys

Get Id of SSH Keys added to your account using [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/)

```
curl -X GET "https://api.digitalocean.com/v2/account/keys" /
 -H 'Content-Type: application/json' 
 -H "Authorization: Bearer $DO_TOKEN"  -s | jq .
{
  "ssh_keys": [
    {
      "id": 418602,
      "fingerprint": "...",
      "public_key": "ssh-rsa ...",
      "name": ".."
    },
    {
      "id": 721599,
      "fingerprint": "...",
      "public_key": "...",
      "name": "..."
    }
  ],
  "links": {},
  "meta": {
    "total": 2
  }
}
```

```console
$ export SSH_KEY_ID=721599
```

#### Create Master Droplet - untested

  ```
  curl -X POST https://api.digitalocean.com/v2/droplets \
      -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $DO_TOKEN" \
      -d '
  {
      "name":"master.domain.com",
      "region":"sgp1",
      "size":"512mb",
      "image":"coreos-stable",
      "ssh_keys":['$SSH_KEY_ID'],
      "backups":false,
      "private_networking":true,
      "user_data": "'"$(cat cloud-init-master.yaml | sed 's/"/\\"/g')"'"
  }
  ```

  Get master private IP

  ```console
  $ curl -X GET "https://api.digitalocean.com/v2/droplets/<master_id>"   -H "Authorization: Bearer $DO_TOKEN" -s | jq -r '.droplet.networks.v4[] | select(.type == "private") |  .ip_address'
  10.44.48.24
  $ export MASTER_PRIVATE_IP=10.44.48.24
  ```

#### Create Node Droplets - untested

  ```console
  curl -X POST https://api.digitalocean.com/v2/droplets \
      -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $DO_TOKEN" \
      -d '
  {
      "name":"master.domain.com",
      "region":"sgp1",
      "size":"512mb",
      "image":"coreos-stable",
      "ssh_keys":['$SSH_KEY_ID'],
      "backups":false,
      "private_networking":true,
      "user_data": "'"$(cat cloud-init-node.yaml | sed "s/<master-private-ip>/${MASTER_PRIVATE_IP}/g" | sed 's/"/\\"/g')"'"
  }
  ```

#### List all Droplets

```
curl -X GET "https://api.digitalocean.com/v2/droplets" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $DO_TOKEN" | jq .
```

Commit message:

Add kubectl to master cloud-init & update documentation

setup-DigitalOcean/README.md, after:

## k8s v1.0.4 on CoreOS/flannel at Digital Ocean

Simple bootstrap config for quick start

get latest stable kubernetes release version number:

```bash
k8s_latest=`curl -s https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/stable.txt`

# all stable kubernetes binaries can then be curled via:
http://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/$k8s_latest/bin/linux/amd64/<binary_name>
```

Revise the yaml files to ensure `kubernetes-release` is as expected (this repo version uses 1.0.4).

### Digital Ocean API Key

You will need your Digital Ocean API key handy. Head over to https://cloud.digitalocean.com/settings/applications if you do not yet have one. Generate a new *Personal Access Token* for both *read* and *write*. Export the token as an environment variable so we can use it later on:

```console
$ export DO_TOKEN=<token_from_website>
```

### Using doctl

[`doctl`](https://github.com/digitalocean/doctl/) is a tool written in Go to simplify Digital Ocean control from the command line. Below are a few scripts using doctl to set up & tear down a Kubernetes cluster on Digital Ocean.

The Start script will detect if doctl is available and download doctl 0.0.16 if not found.

All scripts also depend on [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/) but do not detect if it is missing.

`jq` comes pre-installed on CoreOS, if you need to pull v1.5 to your local machine (assuming linux x86_64):

```console
$ sudo curl -sLo /usr/bin/jq https://github.com/stedolan/jq/releases/download/jq-1.5/jq-linux64
$ sudo chmod +x /usr/bin/jq
```

The Scripts do not store any configuration of the cluster created and are pretty dumb, would like to move to terraform in future.

**NOTE**: Be very careful with the script to destroy droplets, do not run unless you understand how it works!

#### Script: start.sh

##### Usage:

```console
$ ./scripts/create.sh <domain> <region> <nodes>
```

for example, the following command will create **3 nodes** (1 master + 2 workers) for domain.com in Singapore region

```console
$ ./scripts/create.sh domain.com sgp1 2
```

#### Script: addnodes.sh

##### Usage:

```console
$ ./scripts/addnodes.sh <domain> <region> <existing_count> <nodes_to_add>
```

for example, the following command will add 2 nodes (node3 & node4) for domain.com in Singapore regaion

```console
$ ./scripts/addnodes.sh domain.com sgp1 3 2
```

#### Script: destroy.sh

##### Usage:

*Danger*

```console
$ ./scripts/destroy.sh <domain> <region> <nodes>
```

for example, the following command will try to destroy master.sgp1.domain.com, node0.sgp1.domain.com & node1.sgp1.domain.com

```console
$ ./scripts/destroy.sh domain.com sgp1 2
```

### Test Cluster

Once the kubernetes cluster has been created, you can test the cluster with following commands

* `fleetctl list-machines` 
* `kubectl get cs`
* `kubectl get nodes`

### Run & Expose Kube-ui for demo

```bash
git clone https://github.com/so0k/yapc-asia-2015.git
kubectl create -f yapc-asia-2015/demo/rc/kube-ui-rc.yaml --namespace=kube-system
kubectl create -f yapc-asia-2015/demo/svc/kube-ui-svc.yaml --namespace=kube-system
```

Once UI pods have started, UI will be available here: http://master.domain.com:8080/ui/

### Digital Ocean caveats:

Notice that the default interface `eth0` receives 2 IP addresses:

```console
$ ip -4 addr show
1: lo: <LOOPBACK,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 65536 qdisc noqueue state UNKNOWN group default
    inet 127.0.0.1/8 scope host lo
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
2: eth0: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1500 qdisc fq_codel state UP group default qlen 1000
    inet 169.254.171.147/16 brd 169.254.255.255 scope link eth0
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
    inet 188.166.243.236/20 brd 188.166.255.255 scope global eth0
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
3: eth1: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1500 qdisc fq_codel state UP group default qlen 1000
    inet 10.130.50.203/16 brd 10.130.255.255 scope global eth1
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
4: flannel.1@NONE: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1450 qdisc noqueue state UNKNOWN group default
    inet 10.244.40.0/16 scope global flannel.1
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
5: docker0@NONE: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1450 qdisc noqueue state UP group default
    inet 10.244.40.1/24 scope global docker0
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
```

This trips up `kelseyhightower\network-environment-setup` which picks up the first ip address (internal) for `${DEFAULT_IPV4}` as the Host Name reported by the kubelet, causing several issues with the k8s cluster.

[From DO CoreOS troubleshooting guide](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-troubleshoot-common-issues-with-your-coreos-servers#checking-for-access-to-the-metadata-service): The actual cloud-config file that is given when the CoreOS server is created with DigitalOcean is stored using a metadata service. The Meta Data service lives in CIDR `196.254.0.0/16` which is routed through `eth0`.

From within your host machine, type:

```console
$ curl -L 169.254.169.254/metadata/v1
id
hostname
user-data
vendor-data
public-keys
region
interfaces/
dns/

$ curl -L 169.254.169.254/metadata/v1/user-data
#cloud-config
users:
...
```

We can fix in 3 ways:

1. Use the [`cgeoffroy/setup-network-environment`](https://github.com/cgeoffroy/setup-network-environment/commit/b09605e88c9bcc6d10bc442f6dd829ae317d488a) fork which comes with a `-f option to filter CIDR` use this option to filter out `196.254.0.0/16`
1. Use `$public_ipv4` variable which is made available to the cloud-config
1. Use `$private_ipv4` variable which is made avaialble to the cloud-config

I chose option 1 to keep functionality the same as in original yaml files but make them work on Digital Ocean, this should be the same as `$public_ipv4` - which exposes cAdvisor statistics to the public internet. I believe using `$private_ipv4` is a better option.

### Create cluster using Digital Ocean web Interface

Booo!

#### Create Master Droplet

Create a new droplet via DO web interface, as follows:
  1. Droplet Hostname: `master.domain.com`
  1. Select Size: Any
  1. Select Region: Any with private networking support
  1. Available Settings: "Private Networking", "Enable User Data"
  1. Put cloud-config to user data textarea
  1. Select Image: CoreOS (stable)
  1. Choose your SSH key
  1. Press "Create a Droplet" button

For Demo: Create DNS record pointing `master.domain.com` to public IP of droplet

#### Create Node Droplets

Create a new droplets via DO web interface, as follows (replace %i% by running number):
  1. Droplet Hostname: `node%i%.domain.com`
  1. Select Size: Any
  1. Select Region: *same region as master*
  1. Available Settings: "Private Networking", "Enable User Data"
  1. Put cloud-config to user data textarea
  1. *Replace `<master-private-ip>` by your master private ip address*
  1. Select Image: CoreOS (stable)
  1. Choose your SSH key
  1. Press "Create a Droplet" button

For Demo: create a DNS record pointing to `node%i%.domain.com` to public IP of droplet

### Using Curl & Digital Ocean (API)

Hardcore?

### Get all SSH Keys

Get Id of SSH Keys added to your account using [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/)

```
curl -X GET "https://api.digitalocean.com/v2/account/keys" /
 -H 'Content-Type: application/json' 
 -H "Authorization: Bearer $DO_TOKEN"  -s | jq .
{
  "ssh_keys": [
    {
      "id": 418602,
      "fingerprint": "...",
      "public_key": "ssh-rsa ...",
      "name": ".."
    },
    {
      "id": 721599,
      "fingerprint": "...",
      "public_key": "...",
      "name": "..."
    }
  ],
  "links": {},
  "meta": {
    "total": 2
  }
}
```

```console
$ export SSH_KEY_ID=721599
```

#### Create Master Droplet - untested

  ```
  curl -X POST https://api.digitalocean.com/v2/droplets \
      -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $DO_TOKEN" \
      -d '
  {
      "name":"master.domain.com",
      "region":"sgp1",
      "size":"512mb",
      "image":"coreos-stable",
      "ssh_keys":['$SSH_KEY_ID'],
      "backups":false,
      "private_networking":true,
      "user_data": "'"$(cat cloud-init-master.yaml | sed 's/"/\\"/g')"'"
  }
  ```

  Get master private IP

  ```console
  $ curl -X GET "https://api.digitalocean.com/v2/droplets/<master_id>"   -H "Authorization: Bearer $DO_TOKEN" -s | jq -r '.droplet.networks.v4[] | select(.type == "private") |  .ip_address'
  10.44.48.24
  $ export MASTER_PRIVATE_IP=10.44.48.24
  ```

#### Create Node Droplets - untested

  ```console
  curl -X POST https://api.digitalocean.com/v2/droplets \
      -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer $DO_TOKEN" \
      -d '
  {
      "name":"master.domain.com",
      "region":"sgp1",
      "size":"512mb",
      "image":"coreos-stable",
      "ssh_keys":['$SSH_KEY_ID'],
      "backups":false,
      "private_networking":true,
      "user_data": "'"$(cat cloud-init-node.yaml | sed "s/<master-private-ip>/${MASTER_PRIVATE_IP}/g" | sed 's/"/\\"/g')"'"
  }
  ```

#### List all Droplets

```
curl -X GET "https://api.digitalocean.com/v2/droplets" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $DO_TOKEN" | jq .
```
